Dear fellow citizens,

A year lies behind us, with its highs and lows, with joyful and sad moments. Each of us will have something very personal that comes to mind. This evening, I am thinking above all of the extremely difficult political year that is coming to an end today.

I know that many of you have struggled greatly with the Federal Government. First, it took us a long time even to form a government, and once we had one, there were disputes and a great deal of preoccupation with ourselves.

My understanding as Federal Chancellor is that our democracy lives from the broadly shared agreement that those who serve the state do everything in their power to preserve domestic peace and the cohesion of our country. That they repeatedly examine what they themselves can personally contribute to this.

That is what I have done. And I have done so regardless of how unsatisfactory the past year was, because, quite fundamentally, 13 years in office as Federal Chancellor are in themselves more than enough reason to do so.

At the end of October, I therefore initiated a new beginning and said that, after the end of this legislative term, I would no longer hold any political office.

Democracy thrives on change, and all of us are subject to the passage of time. We build on what our predecessors have left us and shape the present for those who will come after us.

In doing so, I am guided by the conviction that we will only master the challenges of our time if we stand together and cooperate with others across borders.

For me, the images that our astronaut Alexander Gerst has sent us from the International Space Station, the ISS, over the past few months are almost symbolic of this. They are images that repeatedly give us a new perspective on our planet: on natural forces such as hurricanes, with which we humans must live; on our Central European landscapes, which during this unusually dry summer appeared completely brown rather than green even from space; and time and again, they are simply images of the overwhelming beauty of our Earth.

On the one hand, this overwhelming beauty. On the other hand, we know how vulnerable the foundations of our lives are—in the broadest sense. There is the defining challenge of climate change, the challenge of managing and regulating migration, and the fight against international terrorism.

It is in our own interest to resolve all of these issues, and we can do so most effectively when we also take the interests of others into account. That is the lesson of the two world wars of the last century. But this conviction is no longer shared by everyone today, and certainties about international cooperation are coming under pressure. In such a situation, we must once again stand up more strongly for our convictions, make our arguments, and fight for them. And, in our own interest, we must assume greater responsibility.

Starting tomorrow, Germany will be a member of the United Nations Security Council for two years and will work there in support of global solutions. We are continuing to increase our funding for humanitarian aid and development assistance, as well as our defence spending.

We are working to make the European Union more robust and more capable of taking decisions. And despite the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union, we want to maintain a close partnership with Britain.

In May, by taking part in the European elections, you can help ensure that the European Union continues to be a project of peace, prosperity and security in the future.

Dear fellow citizens, prosperity, security and peace—above all, we must work for these things here at home.

Millions of people willingly devote themselves to serving society. On this New Year's Eve, I would particularly like to thank all police officers, soldiers, the many emergency and rescue workers, and all those who care for others in hospitals and in nursing and care services, as well as the millions of people who volunteer their time.

In order to safeguard jobs, prosperity and the foundations of our lives, the Federal Government is consistently taking the next steps in the structural transition from traditional to new technologies and is implementing its strategy for digital progress.

Through our efforts to create equivalent living conditions, we want to ensure that everyone has good access to education, housing and healthcare—both in rural areas and in cities.

In doing so, we struggle to find the best practical solutions. But increasingly, we are also struggling over the way we treat one another and over our values: openness, tolerance and respect. These values have made our country strong. We must stand up for them together—even when doing so is uncomfortable and demanding.

Where we believe in our values and put our ideas into practice with determination, new and positive things can emerge. From this can grow the strength we need to solve our problems step by step and thereby lay the foundations for a peaceful and secure future for ourselves and our children.

I wish all of us the courage to do so, together with all my very best wishes to you and your families for a healthy, happy and blessed New Year 2019.
